# LMM-recommendation-system
Abstract
Accurate prediction of users' responses to items is one of the main aims of many computational advising applications. Examples include recommending movies, news articles, songs, jobs, clothes, books and so forth. However, most traditional recommendation systems have low accuracy of recommendation. The aim of this project is to find certain latent association between user features (e.g., age, gender, occupation) and item features through mining and learning some stable benchmark data sets, and then make a reasonable statistical inference or recommendation for business development. Experimental results show that the linear mixed model can effectively analyze the differences between different users’ characteristics on movie rating, and the impact of different occupational characteristics on the rating analyze is the most significant.

Introduction：
Recommender system is an intelligent tool focused on providing users with individual information. In our daily life, recommender system even knows more about the user’s tastes and needs than we do ourselves, such as ‘guess you like’ in Taobao and Netease cloud’s recommendation list meet out current needs in a timely manner. Given a set of features, we apply the linear mixed model (LMM) to predict user’s preferences. LMM is a variance component model which contains both fixed and random effects for statistical inference and prediction. Our method firstly selects the the most representative movie in the Movielens database to obtain the most significant characteristics of the movie rating effect. Secondly, we discuss whether it has the similar significant differences in a typically genre. Finally, we discuss the differences in all types of Movielens movie rating. Even though our method still has some limitation, the results show that this method is feasible for movie recommender system. The LMM formulas we used are shown below, and we will give the details and conclusions of our experimental process in the next section.

Experiment Design:
We applied LMM to the movie recommendation algorithm, specifically designed with age as the fixed effect, and gender occupation as the random effect.Gender is fixed effect, occupation age is random effect;Occupation is a fixed effect and gender age a random effect.Three experiments.
First, we looked at whether human characteristics had an impact on individual movie ratings.We extracted each movie from the movielens data set and fitted the corresponding parameter matrix with the mixedlm formula in the python statsmodels package.After the comparison of radar maps, it was found that human features had an impact on the single film score.For example, as shown in radar figure 1, the scores of Jurassic park varied greatly among different professions, among which the scores of unemployed and writers were lower, while those of copywriter management and retirees were higher.
Secondly, we studied whether human characteristics had an impact on the overall rating of a type of film.Here we extract each type of movie and add multiple types of movies into the set of all types.The results showed that the characteristics of people had an influence on the rating of certain types of films.For example, as shown in radar figure 2, there are differences in the scores of terrorist films among different ages, among which the scores of people under the age of 18 are relatively high, while those of 50-55 and 56+ are relatively low.
Finally, we used the function in the statsmodels package to predict the scores of different characteristic groups.We used random 80% data for training, and the remaining 20% for testing, with MAE as the evaluation index.The results are as follows: line chart.
Among them, the experimental design with the fixed effect of occupation had the worst prediction effect on the horror movie, and the experimental design with the fixed effect of gender had the best prediction effect on the black movie.Overall: 1. The prediction effect of experiment design with fixed effect by occupation is slightly better than the other two; 2. The prediction effect of black films is the best, while that of horror films is the worst.
The result is superior to the collaborative filtering method and the fusion of heterogeneous information network and scoring matrix.
